---
title: "Sabbatical Notes #11: The End"
date: 2025-10-06T8:00:00-07:00
description: "A timeline of the last arc"
type: "posts"
mins: 3
draft: true
---

After two years, my sabbatical has come to an end; I've started a Clinical Psychology grad program to become a therapist.

The timeline since my last sabbatical post looks something like this:

**Nov 2024**  
Got the itch to do something work/career-related again. Pondered the idea of <a target="_blank" href="https://billy.dev/posts/sabbatical-notes/9/">Good Work</a>.

**Dec 2024**  
Decided to apply to "therapist school" - Counseling Psychology (MA) and Clinical Psychology (PsyD) programs. I thought, "F*ck it, I'll apply. If I don't get in, then we'll figure out what to do after."

**Jan 2025**  
Crammed grad school applications, and started pre-req classes for the PsyD programs I was interested in, (1) in case I got in, and (2) as an experiment to see if going back to school would make me want to bash my head into a wall or not.

**Feb 2025**  
Conflict! With all of the applications and coursework, I started to yearn for the earlier, freer days of my sabbatical when I just did whatever I wanted.
Wrestled with indecision. Did I really want to go to grad school? Should I just stay on sabbatical and see where that wandering route leads?

**Mar 2025**  
I decided to commit to the grad school path, and I also updated my perspective: I would apply, and if I didn't get in I would apply again in the next cycle. I was committed to going to school.

How did I decide? I wrote about it a bit at the end of my post on the <a target="_blank" href="https://billy.dev/posts/indecision#what-can-you-do">mechanics of indecision</a> – I decided to choose Focus, to make _a_ decision and see it through until it no longer serves me, and I picked the option that was harder to come by and more time-sensitive (grad school). I could always go on another sabbatical later.

**End of Mar 2025**  
I got accepted to my top choice PsyD program. Wild.

**Apr-Jun 2025**  
Reoriented my life around attending grad school in the Fall. I had projects I needed to wrap up – sabbatical notes to time-capsule my thoughts and feelings, other blog posts, meeting with an interior designer about how to update my living room. I bought an e-bike for my new commute, and did a test ride where I got a flat tire and had to get it fixed :sweat-smile:.

**Jul-Aug 2025**  
Lots of summer plans – shows, friends, family, travel.

Lots of scratching items off my weeb bucket list. Went to an Ado concert (I am still thinking about <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7zh5i3x7CZ0">her cover of Chandelier</a>). Blitzed a trip to NYC to see the Hololive EN concert. Someday if I can see <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZP5eqm4JqM">Hoshimachi Suisei</a> and Yorushika perform, then I can die a happy man.

**Aug-Oct 2025**  
Started grad school. Got thrown into the deep end but with some support structures, which is kind of how I prefer to learn. It's been a lot, but it really feels like there's no place I'd rather be right now.

It's crazy how fun and engaging school and training can be when you're really into the subject lol.
