---
title: "Sabbatical Notes #5: Self-Love"
date: 2024-01-12T23:59:00-07:00
description: "TODO"
type: "posts"
mins: 3
---

_Covers Nov 2023 to Jan 2024._

After the dust settled in <a target="_blank" href="https://billy.dev/posts/sabbatical-notes/4/">October</a>, my experiences and my new mindset coalesced into these two goals:

1. Continue to do the creative work that I love, and do whatever I need to in order to sustain this; while in the background:

2. Rewire myself away from grasping for external validation of my work as a necessary component of my worth, and toward cultivating an internal wellspring of self-worth

With (2), I realize now, truly realize, that a big part of me _doesn't like myself_.

The writing was on the wall, though, for a long time. The negative self-talk ("I'm an idiot!" or "Tsk, that was dumb"). That little trail of darkness that led toward the root of my desire to do better, that I turned my eyes away from and didn't want to follow. The desire to Be Better. And the harshness which I employed to try to fulfill that desire, that would sometimes leak out into my interactions with other people. 

(Side thought I had recently: is there this bit of darkness inside all those who tend J on the MBTI?)

There's this feeling of confused shame that arises when I admit to myself that I don't really like me. How can I not like myself? The only existence I've got is this one, my own! Also, there's so much to like! Also, only people with **issues** don't like themselves, and I couldn't be one of **those** people. And yet, it rings True.

Accepting this feels a bit icky to me still in some unclear way, but it's also freeing. It makes sense! I'm starting to notice more when I'm making certain decisions where I want to be seen as good, and noticing that I want to be liked (by myself or someone else). 

Though it could also just be like this <a target="_blank" href="https://twitter.com/eigenrobot/status/967114911401652225">evergreen tweet</a>.

<hr>

So what now?

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">haha imagine if by the end of this year I successfully rewire my brain through internal and external work to build a vast wellspring of self-love that becomes a cornerstone of my self-worth and being haha that&#39;d be crazy right haha</p>&mdash; billy (@billyisyoung) <a href="https://twitter.com/billyisyoung/status/1742670293154570735?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 3, 2024</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Well, I want to start liking myself. I want to have a healthy, internalized sense of self-worth. In fact, I'll go as far as to say I want **Self-Love**.

As for actual actions, from what I've read plus talking with my therapist, this all takes a rewiring of the neurons in the brain. Negative self-talk must become positive self-talk, and this must become unconscious. 

This kind of rewiring takes <a target="_blank" href="https://twitter.com/billyisyoung/status/1469531249555378176">many months</a>, and looks something like:

_Be aware of the negative thoughts, or grasping at external validation -> when the thoughts arise, be curious, examine and investigate them -> propose and reinforce some new, more positive thoughts that you believe. Meanwhile, just keep living your life._

Other things I'll be looking into:
* Mettā (loving kindness) meditation
* Saying positive affirmations to myself in the mirror (I think research actually does say that this works)
* Whatever else comes up as I'm surfing the web

I'll see how things are going at the end of Q1 2024 or so. But I'm excited and optimistic :)

